contact/index.md, before:

--- 
layout: page
title: Contact
categories: []
---




<form action="https://wadewegner.webscript.io/contact" method="post" class="form-horizontal">
  <div class="control-group">
    <label for="replyto" class="control-label">Your email address:
    </label>
    <div class="controls">
      <input type="text" name="replyto" class="input-xlarge">
    </div>
  </div>
  <div class="control-group">
    <label for="subject" class="control-label">Subject:
    </label>
    <div class="controls">
      <input type="text" name="subject" class="input-xlarge">
    </div>
  </div>
  <div class="control-group">
    <label for="body" class="control-label">Body:
    </label>
    <div class="controls"><textarea name="body" rows="10" class="input-xlarge"></textarea>
    </div>
  </div>
  <div class="control-group">
  	<div class="controls">
  		<script src="https://www.google.com/recaptcha/api/challenge?k=6LfoX-kSAAAAADBLqwTOfptXzcppBVWHK7LL39ys"></script>
  	</div>
  </div>
  <div class="control-group">
    <div class="controls">
      <button type="submit" class="btn">Send</button>
    </div>
  </div>
</form>

Commit message:

Added twitter handle to contact form

contact/index.md, after:

--- 
layout: page
title: Contact Me
categories: []
---

The easiest way to reach me (and get a response) is through Twitter. You can reach me [@WadeWegner](http://twitter.com/WadeWegner). However, in the event you don't have a Twitter account, you can send me a message using the form below.

<form action="https://wadewegner.webscript.io/contact" method="post" class="form-horizontal">
  <div class="control-group">
    <label for="replyto" class="control-label">Your email address:
    </label>
    <div class="controls">
      <input type="text" name="replyto" class="input-xlarge">
    </div>
  </div>
  <div class="control-group">
    <label for="subject" class="control-label">Subject:
    </label>
    <div class="controls">
      <input type="text" name="subject" class="input-xlarge">
    </div>
  </div>
  <div class="control-group">
    <label for="body" class="control-label">Body:
    </label>
    <div class="controls"><textarea name="body" rows="10" class="input-xlarge"></textarea>
    </div>
  </div>
  <div class="control-group">
  	<div class="controls">
  		<script src="https://www.google.com/recaptcha/api/challenge?k=6LfoX-kSAAAAADBLqwTOfptXzcppBVWHK7LL39ys"></script>
  	</div>
  </div>
  <div class="control-group">
    <div class="controls">
      <button type="submit" class="btn">Send</button>
    </div>
  </div>
</form>
